---
layout: frontpage
title: {{ site.title }}
---

\[[Top](../README)\] \[[Prev](../ex2/ex2)\] \[[Next](../ex2c/ex2c)\] 

# Example 2b

```
*bank: @ks[av us bmon] +<+ @us[bmon us exts]
```
This example uses the same Copland phrase as in ex2, but we now want to 
disallow *deep* and *recent* corruptions. When we run Chase with the following ex2b.gln file, no models 
are produced, therefore, according to Chase there are no adversary 
actions that can produce evidence that will pass appraisal if 
*deep* and *recent* corruptions are not considered.  
  
```
[ bound = 500, limit = 5000, input_order ]

% Assume adversary avoids detection at our main measurement
% event. Others can be added.
l(V) = msp(us, M, us, exts, X)
 => corrupt_at(us, exts, V).

% Assumptions about system dependencies.
depends(ks, C, ks, av) => false. 
depends(us, C, us, bmon) => false.
depends(us, C, us, exts) => false.

% Axioms defining "deep" components
% We don't want to see models with deep corruptions
l(V) = cor(ks, M) => false.

% Axiom defining which components might be recently corrupted
prec(V, V1) & l(V1) = cor(P,C) & ms_evt(V)
 => false. 

m4_include(`ex2b.gli')m4_dnl

m4_include(`ex2b_dist.gli')m4_dnl

m4_include(`thy.gli')m4_dnl
```  
Note, this .gln is the same as in ex1b except for the include statements at the bottom.
 
## Analysis  
As stated above and in contrast to the other examples, no models are included in 
this analysis because no models were generated by Chase under the assumptions. 
This result is important since in some systems, we may be confident 
deep corruptions are not possible or are not a reasonable expectation for 
the adversary to corrupt. We might assume the same about recent corruptions 
and consider them too hard for the adversary. Under these assumptions, we see 
that the ordering of the attestations in our phrase are quite strong. We also see that 
by changing our assumptions in the .gln, Chase allows us to interactively explore 
different scenarios and choose where we think the greatest risk of compromise lies. Just 
because there are no models in this example, does not mean there is no risk, but that the risk is 
characterized as recent or deep.

Click [here](../ex2c/ex2c) to move on to the next variation of this example.
