---
layout: frontpage
title: {{ site.title}}
---

# Use Cases for Remote Attestation

<p align="center">Ian D. Kretz, John D. Ramsdell, and Paul D. Rowe<br>
The MITRE Corporation</p>

This note presents a series of use cases for remote attestation.  Each
includes a number of Copland phrases that specify how relevant target
components are measured and by whom, the order in which these
measurements occur, and how the evidence produced by these
measurements is bundled together.

Associated with each example Copland phrase is an XHTML document that
visualizes the phrases's abstract syntax tree and shows how evidence
is accumulated as the phrase executes, culminating in the final
evidence that characterizes the phrase.  These documents can be
generated by running `make` in the directory that contains this
`README`.

The categories of use case are:

 * [Mutual attestation](mutual/mutual)
 * [Certificate-style attestation](cert/cert)
 * [Delegated appraisal](delegated/delegated)

We repeatedly rely on an incremental approach to writing Copland
phrases, starting from simpler ones whose correctness is easily
verified and gradually building up complexity.  We generally advocate
for such an approach to writing phrases.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

What follows is an introduction to Copland phrase syntax and
semantics.  The section on semantics helps interpret the XHTML
document generated from a Copland phrase. We assume the reader is
familiar with [Orchestrating Layered Attestation][copland].  What is
presented here is a slight variation of what is described in the
paper.

## Copland Syntax

A symbol is a lowercase letter optionally followed by letters, digits,
and underscores.  The syntax of a Copland phrase is

```
COPLAND ::= * PLACE : PHRASE | PHRASE

PLACE   ::= SYMBOL | DIGITS

PHRASE  ::= SYMBOL PLACE SYMBOL      -- Measurement (probe place target)
         |  {}                       -- Null
         |  _                        -- Copy
         |  !                        -- Signature
         |  #                        -- Hash
         |  @ PLACE PHRASE           -- At place
         |  @ PLACE [ PHRASE ]       -- At place with brackets
         |  PHRASE -> PHRASE         -- Linear sequencing
         |  PHRASE BRANCH PHRASE     -- Sequential and parallel branching
         |  ( PHRASE )

BRANCH  ::= -<- | +<- | -<+ | +<+    -- Sequential
         |  -~- | +~- | -~+ | +~+    -- Parallel
```

The initial place `P` is specified using `*P:`, and this place
defaults to `p0` when left unspecified.

The @ operator has the lowest precedence, the branching operator is
non-associative and has medium precedence, and linear sequencing
operator is right associative and has the highest precedence.  Thus

    *p0: @p1 kim p2 ker -> ! -<- @p2 (vc p2 sys) -> !

Is equivalent to

    *p0: @p1 (((kim p2 ker) -> !) -<- (@p2 ((vc p2 sys) -> !)))

Notice that the largest Copland phrase that follows an @ operator is
the one that is associated with it when brackets are omitted.

When a place is a sequence of digits, it is equivalent to the symbol
that results from adding the letter `p` to the beginning of the digits.

The comment character is percent.

## Copland Semantics

Associated with each Copland phrase is a term that describes the type
of evidence collected by the phrase.  Additionally, each Copland
phrase has a precise semantics based on partially ordered sets of
events, in which events are labeled.

### Evidence Types

The syntax of evidence type `EVIDENCE` is

```
EVIDENCE ::= mt
          |  m(msp(SYMBOL, PLACE, SYMBOL), PLACE, EVIDENCE)
          |  g(EVIDENCE, PLACE) | H(EVIDENCE, PLACE)
          |  s(EVIDENCE, EVIDENCE)
          |  p(EVIDENCE, EVIDENCE)
```

The empty evidence type is `mt`.  The set of possible reports
generated by measurement request `S Q T` at `P` given previous
evidence `V` is `m(msp(S, Q, T), P, V)`, where `msp(S, Q, T)` is an
event label to be explained later.  The evidence gained by signing `V`
at `P` is `g(V, P)`, and evidence gained by hashing `V` at `P` is
`H(V, P)`.  Evidence of the form `s(V1, V2)` asserts that the report
in `V1` was produced before the report in `V2`, and evidence of the
form `p(V1, V2)` makes no assertion about the ordering of the report
in `V1` relative to the one in `V2`.

### Event Semantics

Semantically, a Copland phrase specifies the mapping of input
evidence to some output evidence via one or more attestation events.
Each event occurs at a well defined place.  Events involve taking
measurements, signing or hashing evidence, or routing evidence so as
to produce combinations of evidence.

To describe the semantics of executing Copland phrase `C` at place
`P`, we describe how it transforms evidence of type `V` into evidence of
type `f(V)`, making use of diagrams of the form:

```
  V   +-------+   f(V)
----> | LABEL | ------->
      +-------+
```

The box represents an event, and the arrows show the flow of evidence.
The ordering of events respects the flow of evidence.  The syntax of
an event label is

```
LABEL ::= PLACE:msp(SYMBOL, PLACE, SYMBOL)
       |  PLACE:nul | PLACE:cpy | PLACE:sig | PLACE:hsh
       |  PLACE:req(PLACE) | PLACE:rpy(PLACE)
       |  PLACE:BRANCH split | PLACE:join
```

The initial evidence associated with a phrase is the empty evidence
`mt`.

The most basic Copland phrase is a measurement `S Q T`, for symbols
`S` and `T`, and place `Q`, where `S` names the measurement, `T` names
the target of the measurement, and `Q` is the place at which the
target resides.  When at place `P` with input evidence `V`, `S Q T`
means that `P` should receive `V`, perform `S` targeting `T` at `Q`,
and then emit the resulting evidence `f(V)`.

```
  V   +--------------+   f(V)
----> | P:msp(S,Q,T) | ------->
      +--------------+
```

where `f(V)= m(msp(S, Q, T), P, V)`.  Evidence type `m(E, P, V)`
denotes the type of evidence produced by Measurement SPecification `E`
at P starting with evidence of type `V`.

Let `P:{C}` be the events and their orderings associated with
executing phrase `C` at `P`.  Measurements can be combined in a
pipeline fashion using the `->` operator.  Thus when at `P` with input
evidence `V`, `C1 -> C2` means

```
  V            f1(V)            f2(f1(V))
----> P:{C1} --------> P:{C2} ------------>
```

Measurements can be taken at a remote locations using the `@` operator.
When at `P` with input evidence `V`, `@Q[C]` means

```
  V   +----------+   V           f(V)   +----------+   f(V)
----> | P:req(Q) | ----> Q:{C} -------> | P:rpy(Q) | ------->
      +----------+                      +----------+
```

Phrases `C1` and `C2` can be combined using branching.  There are
several ways of combining phrases using branching, but they all follow
the same split-join pattern.  When at `P` with input evidence `V`, `C1
BRANCH C2` means

```
                           V1           f1(V1)
                         -----> P:{C1} --------->
  V   +----------------+/                        \+--------+   V0
----> | P:BRANCH split |                          | P:join | ----->
      +----------------+\  V2           f2(V2)   /+--------+
                         -----> P:{C2} --------->
```

There are two dimensions by which branching differs.  The split event
may pass its input evidence to a phrase or hide it from that phrase by
sending the empty evidence.  Additionally, the execution of phrase
`C1` may be required to finish before phrase `C2` starts, or both are
allowed to execute in parallel.

Three characters make up a branching operator. If the middle character
is `<`, sequential branching is specified, and `V0 = s(f1(V1),
f2(V2))`.  Otherwise the middle character is `~`, parallel branching
is specified, and `V0 = p(f1(V1), f2(V2))`.  When sequential branching
is specified, every event in `P:{C1}` occurs before every event in
`P:{C2}`.  Otherwise, these sets of events are not ordered.

The actions of the split event are specified by the `+` and `-`
characters.  If the first character in the operator is `+`, then `V1 =
V`.  Otherwise, the first character is `-`, and `V1 = mt`.  The third
character in the operator specifies the value of `V2` similarly.

There are four phrases that specify single events.

Hashing is specified using `#`.  When at `P` with input evidence `V`,
`#` means

```
  V   +-------+   h(V, P)
----> | P:hsh | ---------->
      +-------+
```

Signing is specified using `!`.  When at `P` with input evidence `V`,
`!` means

```
  V   +-------+   g(V, P)
----> | P:sig | ---------->
      +-------+
```

Copying is specified using `_`.  When at `P` with input evidence
`V`,`_` means

```
  V   +-------+   V
----> | P:cpy | ----->
      +-------+
```

Nullifying is specified using `{}`.  When at `P` with input evidence
`V`, `{}` means

```
  V   +-------+   mt
----> | P:nul | ----->
      +-------+
```

## XHTML Rendering

A tool creates an XHTML document from a Copland phrase that contains
the phrase and a visualization of its semantics.  The document
contains the phrase that was analyzed, a diagram of the abstract
syntax of the phrase that makes it clear how it is parsed, and a
diagram showing its event semantics.

The diagram contains two types of nodes.  An oval represents an event
and it contain the event's label.  A box represents evidence.

A black arrow shows both a flow of data and an ordering of events.  A
red arrow indicates an additional ordering of events due to the use of
a sequential branching operator.  A blue arrow connects a request with
its matching reply.

Events and evidence passing that occur at one place are collected
together within a surrounding rectangle.  The place associated with
the rectangle is displayed in the upper right corner of the rectangle.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

© 2020 The MITRE Corporation.

Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Public Release
Case Number 20-2549

The view, opinions, and/or findings contained in this report are those
of The MITRE Corporation and should not be construed as an official
Government position, policy, or decision, unless designated by other
documentation.

This technical data deliverable was developed using contract funds
under Basic Contract No. W56KGU-18-D-0004.

[copland]: https://ku-sldg.github.io/copland/resources/copland-post-2019.pdf
